# Script for Autonomous Vehicle (test video) 

One of the most rapidly approaching new technological paradigms is that of autonomous vehicles. While this technology will revolutionize more than just how we travel, it’s the self-driving car that we’ll focus on for this video. We’ll look briefly over the history of autonomous vehicles, then move on into what’s going on today, what we’ll be seeing in the near future and how it might reshape our society. 

An autonomous cars is a vehicle that is capable of sensing its environment and navigating without direct human input. They use a variety of techniques to detect their surroundings, such as radar, laser light (LIDAR), GPS, odometry, and computer vision. Advanced control systems interpret sensory information to identify appropriate navigation paths, as well as obstacles and relevant signage. Here we should make a distinction between Autonomous, and automated. Autonomous means having the power for self-governance. The autonomous entity can make decisions for itself. Automated on the other hand is told what to do, and then does exactly that thing. 

There are several levels autonomous vehicles that differ and capabilities and require varying degrees of human intervention. :
Level 0: Automated system issues warnings but has no vehicle control.
Level 1 (”hands on”):Driver and automated system shares control over the vehicle. An example would be Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) where the driver controls steering and the automated system controls speed, or Parking Assistance, which is the opposite. The driver must be ready to retake full control at any time.
Level 2 (”hands off”): The automated system takes full control of the vehicle (accelerating, braking, and steering), but the driver must monitor the driving and be prepared to immediately intervene.
Level 3 (”eyes off”): The driver can safely turn their attention away from the driving tasks, but the driver must still be prepared to intervene within some limited time, specified by the manufacturer, when called upon by the vehicle to do so.
Level 4 (”mind off”): As level 3, but no driver attention is ever required for safety, i.e. the driver may safely go to sleep or leave the driver's seat. Self driving is supported only in limited areas (geofenced) or under special circumstances, like traffic jams. Outside of these areas or circumstances, the vehicle must be able to safely abort the trip, i.e. park the car, if the driver does not retake control.
Level 5 (”wheel optional”): No human intervention is ever required. An example would be a robot taxi with no human driver present or needed.

Experiments have been conducted on automating cars since at least the 1920s; promising trials took place in the 1950s and work has proceeded since then. The first self-sufficient and truly autonomous cars appeared in the 1980s. Some notable recent milestones include: 

The first competition of the DARPA Grand Challenge was held on March 13, 2004 in the Mojave Desert.
2009 The Google Self-Driving Car project begins
2015 Tesla release its Autopilot software update.
2016 Uber releases self driving taxis (Level 3 - 4) in San Francisco

Today, many different companies including Google, Facebook, Uber, Udacity and Nutonomy, are not just experimenting with this technology on closed courses, but are bringing it into the real world. Tesla's Model 3 is able to match traffic conditions, keep within a lane, automatically change lanes without requiring driver input, transition from one freeway to another, exit the freeway when your destination is near and self-park when near a parking spot. Elon Musk has stated, and there does not seem to be any reason to doubt, that Tesla models on the road right now are capable of eventually achieving full autonomy. "Robot Taxis" are becoming common and the law is by and large allowing this to happen unhindered but with regulations: in many states and provinces, autonomous vehicles are perfectly legal (with some restrictions of course). Cars are also now upgradeable via software updates, and this is already having a positive impact. In one case where a Tesla was driven off a cliff (the driver was in control), the occupants sustained only minor injuries after plunging 300 feet, and the next month an update was released that would have likely prevented the accident in the first place. These changes are small and creeping, but soon they will transform the world into something we don't recognize. 
What comes in the immediate future is basically just improvements on present implementation as widespread adoption occurs. As autonomous cars become more common, we will start to see them linked up to each other, so your car won't just know what's around it, it will know what's around every car nearby. This will allow cars to learn from each other and provide unprecedented amounts of data and experience. 

Because of this technology, we’re going to see a massive decrease in automobile deaths, both from increased safety features of the cars themselves, and more importantly from the fact that cars will be smart, self-governing, self-organizing, and hyper-aware of their surroundings. We will have systems in place rapidly that make it unnecessary for the disabled or the elderly to have a license in order to own a vehicle, as they will never need to guide it. We will see a major increase in the autonomy of these populations as the autonomy of our vehicles increases.

This is not without risk or need for precaution however, as we will need to keep in mind  that increased interconnectedness leads to an increased potential for abuse. If security isn't a major priority, hacking could very quickly go from endangering your bank account or data to endangering the lives of thousands of people. There are also other ways that autonomous vehicles could be used for terroristic acts, such as using them as ordenance delivery systems. Lastly, while the technology is improving all the time, humans still write software, and there will be bugs. These bugs will have lethal consequences, but they will likely not be as severe as the errors caused by human drivers. On a more technical level, there is danger in the fact that it can be difficult to impossible to prove that an algorithm is doing what you want. It might act and behave properly, but you don't know that it's reacting for the reasons it should be until you find the exception and an accident occurs. This difficulty in verifying the safety of an algorithm is a vital problem that must be overcome. 
On a societal level, the transportation industry is going to disappear as a job sector, almost entirely. There will be transportation engineers and other jobs related to the problems of transportation, but much of the work in the industry, which comprises some 4.6 million jobs in the US (~3% of jobs), will disappear almost completely. This is one of the more inevitable changes, as once the technology is widely available, there are almost no downsides to using an auto over a human. They do not sleep or eat or demand pay raises. This will be one of the first industries to be upended by the next generation of technology. It won't happen overnight, but it might be sooner than you think.

But it won’t just be industry that will change; what if you didn't need to own a car, or what if your car MADE you money. With autonomous vehicles, why would your car ever be parked? You could take it to work, and home and call it when you needed it, but in the mean time it could go out and drive people around for a fare. It might not pay for itself, but it would certainly be better than it wasting space on the driveway. This could theoretically drastically reduce the number of cars needed period, and reduce the need to own a car at all. Half of the environmental cost of a car comes from its manufacturing, but if we set it up properly, we might be able to have large swaths of the population go without owning a car at all. We might also reduce the amount of land we need to dedicate to parking lots, because cars would not be parked a lot. They would be on the move helping others and making you money. 

One other benefit is that within a decade or two, our kid's won't understand what a traffic jam is.. Right now, money is poured into expanding highways to reduce traffic, and this doesn't even really work, as larger highways become proportionally more popular. But what DOES help is having drivers who don't make many mistakes. Who don't take 3 second to start accelerating or randomly break because the car ahead flashed THEIR break lights. This will mean not only can we do productive things in the car, but we can spend less time in the car in the first place. Traffic jams will become far less common and whatever (hopefully minimal) emissions cars still produce at this point will plummet further. 

